In this clip, we're going to talk about the
proper way to remove and replace worn front
brake hoses on a nineteen ninety-one Ford
Explorer. In this step, we're going to talk
about the proper way to reinstall your brake
hose retaining clip, the alignment of your
brake hose and starting of the hydraulic line
in the back. On this particular vehicle, a
ninety-one Ford Explorer the clip is different
than any other vehicle. This is actually the
tough one. How this works, is your brake hose
has a flat portion here. You can see that,
let me show it to you that way. See that flat
spot. That flat spot aligns with a corresponding
flat spot on the body of the vehicle right
here. What you're going to do, is line those
up just like so. This clip, just imagine you
still have it lined up, will slide into this
groove here and hold the hose tight to the
body. The clip is going to slip on just like
so. Your brake line will screw in through
here and tighten down. Just due to room, I
can't really show you on the vehicle.
You may have to take and tap that clip down
into position. Alright. You can see the ears
are just barely sticking over the top. That
is fully seated. You're going to want to go
ahead and give a tug on your brake hose to
make sure it's secure. Once you have your
clip in place and the hose seated, you can
go ahead and start the brake line just by
screwing it into the back. You're going to
want run it down as far as you can by hand.
Just because, manipulating a wrench inside
here is kind of difficult and the less you
have to do the better. I've got in snugged
down. Take my eleven millimeter wrench and
put it on the fitting. Once you've got it,
go ahead and continue turning clockwise until
it tightens down. Once you have it tight or
approximately a quarter turn farther. And,
that is the proper way to install your hose,
clip and tighten down the hydraulic fitting.